[MUSIC]
Hello, and in this video, I will be
showing you how you write a text file.
Because we've all seen how you read a
text file, and to write it is slightly
different.
So, we've got the same basic text file set
up here with the four lines in.
And we're just going to read this and then
write it into a different text file.
Now that is not usually what you'd want to
do this with; however, this
is just to explain how you actually will
go about writing a text file.
So, we're going to call, an input which is
going to
be the file which were fetching which is
text.txt, so .text.txt.
And even though we read last time.
And we didn't need to put the second
parameter in
this time cuz we're going to use two
different file handlers.
We are going to put it in.
And that isn't required, it just makes it
easier for us to
differentiate the two, and see them
visually as to what difference to have.
So input and output.
And with r and w.
Rfor w and so.
R for input and w for output.
There are six of these which are r, w, a,
r plus rt and rb.
Now what we are going to be doing in this
video is going to be looking at r and w.
Which is to read and write respectively.
But the a is for append, r plus is to read
and write, but that one is not really
recommended that you use
it because what that will do is make it so
that
it is more likely more, more possible for
something to go wrong.
For example, if you were to output to a
file instead of.
To to this green for example the network
probably do wipe out that file and start
again.
And you lose all the data that was within
it.
And then is rt and rb which is to read
and text, and to read binary and
respectably as well.
But, we are fixing in just r and w for
read and write.
So, after we opened.
The two files, now one of them you'll
notice doesn't actually exist.
We go to our file area, and refresh this,
you'll
see that it is not actually in this area,
and that
means that we're going to create it when
we write
to, and file that doesn't exist, it just
creates the file.
If we write to a file that does exist,
then it wipes
out all the data that was in it and
recreates a file.
And that is why people use append because
it adds it to the end
of the file which is to use the letter a
as a second parameter.
Now we're just going to set this up the
same way we had the last one set up.
So for line in file, okay in input and
we're just going to do print and
we're going to print into line and we're
going to do end equals and then the blank.
Now if we run this.
You'll see, we got the four lines.
And if we refresh over here, we get a
new.txt opened.
If we open that file, there's nothing
actually in here.
And the reason for that is because we're
printing this to the screen.
To not print it to the screen we need to
add another parameter which is file is
equal to output.
And that tells it that we want to save it
to a file.
Now if we run this again and we open this
file.
So it we need to refresh first.
There we go.
We get all four lines input, inputted the
way in which we had it read.
So those two files are exactly the same
now.
So that is how you write to something
within Python.
Now there is something else in which you
might and most likely will use more often.
And that is to read something which is
bigger than.
The actual you might not want to do it per
line because it's such a big file.
And you'll see over here in my file area,
and you'll notice
also within your source files which you
can download that we have bigfile.
Now bigfile contains 32,000 lines, I
believe.
Okay, 30,178 lines.
And so that is quite a lot of lines,
obviously.
And that is quite a lot of data.
It amounts to it being 9.3 million bytes,
which
is a considerable amount for just a text
file.
And all this data is just nothing, really.
It doesn't matter as such.
But what we come to with this is we
can read it in chunks beginning at just
one line.
Because if we read it line by line it
would take forever to ready it.
So what we can do is we can set it up to
be read based on a buffer.
So if we just do buffer size, and I'll
make that 100,000.
And then we do an inf file.
And that have that as open, and we open,
it's called bigfile.txt, and
we want to read that file, and we have the
output, actually call that input, sorry.
And output and we're gonna have that
open newbigfile.txt and that's going to be
write.
Now what I'm going to do here is I'm not
going
to have it write all 9 million and, 9.3
million bios.
We could have it write the first 500,000,
for example.
Or actually first million bytes.
And so what we will do here is, I'll do,
bufferLimit is equal to 1 million.
And so we can now create a while loop,
because unfortunately.
I thought they wouldn't work because we
hae to have it condition.
Because we're doing it based on the
buffer.
We have to check when the buffer has
reached a certain limit.
And so, what we're going to do here is
we're just going to, to create
use the while loop on the buffer, which we
need to create.
Switch is going to contain
input dot read and now we're going to call
it buffer size.
So that will read the first 100,000 bytes.
And, we're going to have a bloop there,
sorry.
Len for butter, len buffer is what we use
if we go all the way to zero.
So, we're not going to use that what we
are going to use, is going to use.
Buffer limit
is greater than 0.
And then whenever we go through this loop,
we'll do bufferlimit.
Minus buffer, is equal to buffer limit
minus buffer size.
So, what that will do, is make it so it
goes from 1 million and works it's way
down to zero.
Once it's reached zero then it will stop
at that and it won't write any more.
Minus.
So we now need to do output.writebuffer
and then we need to print and we'll just
print
a full stop just to, so we can see if
something is actually happening.
And, then, we just put the end of this
equal to
just a blank line, or blank space, will
have scape lines.
Now, if we rung this pop up page, you'll
see, that
was really quick, and we didn't get time
to see it.
But we did one of this at time of one,
two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, all the way to ten, but
if we refresh this page again.
And open this file, you'll see that whilst
we do
have quite a lot of lines in it still, if
I
was to go to properties, you'll see that
there's 1
million bytes exactly, which is what we
specified it to be.
So, that is how you would limit,
reading and writing based on a buffer.
And I like I said, if you wanted to do
this all the way until it was at the
beginning so
it's gonna be an exact replica that we
just create
a buffer and do it while len is equal to
buffer.
And we can delete this line and run it
again.
And now this file has changed.
If we refresh this, and get the Properties
again,
then what we can see, is that, is now,
ooh, that's not right.
Okay, that appears to have added it on to
the end of the previous file.
That's perfectly fine, not too sure why
it's done it.
Because we haven't told it to append.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Oh, right.
Of course.
Right.
The reason why it's done that is because
we've got it in an infinite loop.
We aren't actually changing the buffer
size.
So we need to do here, is we to do buffer
is equal to input.readbuffersize,
so that is currently within it infinitely,
so that should probably stop that.
And if run this again.
You'll see, that that is now no longer
running.
The stop button there is no longer there.
And if we refresh this again, and
then look at properties, you'll see that
there's
9 million, wait 9.3 million values, which
is exactly the same as the previous one.
So, what we had to do there, which I
forgot to do.
Is to tell the buffer again to decrease in
size.
And, the reason why we're doing that is
because the value
is going to change slightly, based on what
we have already read.
So thank you for watching, and I will see
you in the next video.
[MUSIC]